in this and the next video I'd like to
tell you about one possible extension to
the anomaly detection algorithm that
we've developed so far this extension
uses something called the multivariate
Gaussian distribution it has some
advantages and some disadvantages and it
can sometimes catch some anomalies that
the earlier album didn't to motivate
this list starts with an example let's
say that our unlabeled data those that
were not plotted here and I'm going to
use the example of monitoring machines
in the data center Monica computers in
the data center so my two features are
x1 which is the CPU load and x2 which is
maybe the memory use so if I take my two
features if C 1 X 2 and if I model them
as Gaussian you know here's a plot of my
x1 features here's a plot of my x2
features and so if I fed a Gaussian to
that maybe i'll get a gaussian like this
so here's P of x1 which is her which
depends on my parameters nu 1 and Sigma
square is 1 and here's my memory used
you know maybe i'll get a gaussian that
looks like this
and this is my P of x2 which depends on
mu 2 and Sigma square 2 and so this is
how the anomaly detection algorithm
Martha links 1 and X 2 now let's say
that in the test set I have an example
that looks like this right the location
of that Green Cross so the value of x1
is about 0.4 and the value of x2 is
about 1.5 now if you look the data looks
like most of the data lies in this
region and so that Green Cross is pretty
far away from any of the days where I've
seen it looks like that should be raised
in an anomaly right stuff in my data in
my in the data of my good examples it
looks like you know the CPU load and the
memory use they sort of grow linearly
with each other so if I
machine using lots of CPU you know
memory use will also be very high
whereas this example this being example
it looks like here the CPU load is very
low but the memory used is very high and
just have not seen that before my
training set it looks like that should
be an anomaly but let's see what the
anomaly out to touch an apple will do
well for the CPU load that puts it at
around their 0.5 and reasonably high
probability is not that far from other
examples we'll see maybe where as for
the memory use the supply of 0.5 whereas
for the memory uses about 1.5 which is
there again you know this this all to us
to tell the Gaussian but the value here
and the value here is not that different
from many other of the examples of seen
and so P of x1 will be pretty high
reasonably high P of x2 or reasonably
high I mean if you look at this plot
right this point here it doesn't look
that bad and you look at this plot you
know across here doesn't look that bad I
mean a half an examples would be even
greater memory use or with even less CPU
use and so this example doesn't look
that anomalous and so anomaly detection
algorithm will fail to fly at this point
as an anomaly and it turns out that what
our anomaly detection algorithm is doing
is just not realizing that this blue
ellipse shows the high probability
region instead of other things is that
examples here the high probability and
examples the NICS circles are somewhat
lower probably in examples here even
though our probability and somehow you
know things that are Green Cross there
is pretty hard probability and in
particular it tends to think that you
know everything in this region
everything on the line did I'm circling
over has you know about equal
probability and it doesn't realize that
something out here
actually has much lower probability than
something over there
so in order to fix this we can we're
going to develop a modified version of
the anomaly detection algorithm using
something called the multivariate
Gaussian distribution also called the
multivariate normal distribution so
here's what we're going to do we have
features X which are in RN and instead
of modeling P of X 1 P of X 2 separately
we're going to model P of X all in one
go so model of P of X you're all at the
same time so the parameters of the
multivariate Gaussian distribution of MU
which is a vector and Sigma which is an
N by n matrix called the covariance
matrix and the similar to the covariance
matrix that we saw when we were working
with the PCA with the principal
component analysis algorithm for the
sake of completeness let me just write
out the formula for the multivariate
Gaussian distribution so to say that
probably of X and this is parameterize
by my parameters mu and Sigma but the
property of X is equal to once again
this absolutely no need to memorize this
formula you know you can look it up for
whatever mean you need to use it but
this is what they're probably of X looks
like
transpose inverse X minus mu and this
thing here the absolute value of Sigma
this thing here when we write this
symbol this is called the determinant of
Sigma and this is a mathematical
function of a matrix and you really
don't need to know what the determinant
of a matrix is but I really all you need
to know is that you can compute it in
octave by using the octave command Det
of you know Sigma okay and then again
just be clear writing this expression
the Sigma is here these are this n by n
matrix this is not a summation you know
the Sigma there is an N by n matrix so
that's the formula for P of X but more
interestingly or more importantly is
what does P of X actually look like
let's look at some examples of
multivariate among download Gaussian
distributions so let's take a
two-dimensional example so if I have N
equals 2 I have two features x1 and x2
let's say I said Mew to be equal to 0
and Sigma to be equal to this matrix
here with ones on the diagonals and
zeros on the off diagonals this matrix
is sometimes also called the identity
matrix in that case P of X is will look
like this and what I'm showing this
figure is you know for a specific value
of x1 and for a specific value of x2 the
height of this surface gives the value
of P of X and so with this setting of
the parameters P of X is highest when x1
x2 equals 0 so that's the peak of this
Gaussian distribution and the
probability falls off with this sort of
two-dimensional Gaussian or this
bell-shaped 2-dimensional bell-shaped
surface down below is the same thing but
FATA using a contour plot
partly using the different colors and so
this heavy intense red in the middle
corresponds to the highest values and
then the other values decrease with the
yellow being slightly lower values for
cyan being lower values in this deep
blue being the lowest value so this is
really the same figure but plotted you
know we're from viewed from the top
instead using colors instead and so with
this distribution you see that it places
most of the probability near zero zero
and then as you go away as you go out go
away from zero zero the probability of
x1 and x2 goes down now let's try
varying some of the parameters and see
what happens so let's take Sigma and
change it so let's say Sigma the
strengths evolving Sigma is a covariance
matrix and so it measures the variance
of the variability of the features x1 x2
so if you strength Sigma then what you
get is that the width of this bump
diminishes and the height also increment
also increases a bit because of the area
under the surface is equal to one so the
integral of the volume under the surface
is equal of one because probably
distribution must integrate to one but
so if you strength of Aryans yes it's
kind of like shrinking Sigma squared you
end up with a narrower distribution and
one does love its hollow and so you see
here also the concentric ellipses has
shrunk
whereas in contrast if you were to
increase sigma22
to on the diagonals now two times the
identity then you end up with it much
why there are much flatter Gaussian and
so the width of this is much wider then
it's hard to see but this is still a
bell-shaped bump let's just flatten down
the lot that's become much lighter and
so the variance here are the variability
of x1 x2 just becomes wider here a few
more examples now let's try the air
let's try varying one of the elements of
Sigma at a time let's say I set Sigma to
0.6 there and one over there what this
does is this reduces the variance of the
first feature x1 while keeping the
variance of the second feature x2 the
same and so with this setting of Francis
you can model things like that x1 has
smaller the aryans and x2 as logic areas
whereas if I do this if I set this
matrix 2 to 1 then you can also model
examples well you know here looks like
x1 can have take on a large range of
values whereas x2 takes on the
relatively narrow range of values and
that's reflected in this figure as well
aware you know that the distribution
falls off more slowly as x1 moves away
from 0 the Falls are very rapidly as x2
moves away from 0 and similarly if we
were to modify this element of the
matrix instead and similar to the
previous slide except that here we're
you know playing around here we're
saying that x2 can take on a very small
range of values and so here if this is
0.6 and notice now x2 tends to take on
that much smaller range of values that
the origin
example whereas if we were to set Sigma
to the tune and that's a saying that x2
you know has a much larger range of
values now one of the cool things about
the multivariate Gaussian distribution
is then you can also use it to model
correlations between the data that is
you can model just the model of the fact
that x1 and x2 tend to be highly
correlated with each other for example
so specifically if you start to change
the off-diagonal entries of this
covariance matrix so you can get a
different type of Gaussian distribution
and so as I increase the off-diagonal
entries from from 52.8 what I get is a
distribution that's more and more thinly
peaks along this sort of x equals y
alignment
so here the contour says that you know
it's a Y tend to grow together and the
large the things with large probability
are if you know either x1 as large and
y2 as large or a from small my to a
small or somewhere in between
and as this entry open it gets large you
get a Gaussian distribution this so that
where all the probability lies on this
sort of own narrow region where X is
approximately equal to Y and it is a
very tall thin distribution you know
lying mostly along this line mostly
along this central region where X is
close to Y so this is if we set these
entries to be positive entries in
contrast if we set these to negative
values as I decreases the minus 25 down
to minus point 8 then what we get is a
model where we put most of the
probability in this sort of negative x 1
and x 2 correlation
and so most of the probability now lies
in this region where x1 is about equal
to minus x2 rather than the x1 equals x2
and so this captures a sort of negative
correlation between x1 and x2 and so
this is a hopefully this gives you a
sense of the different distributions
that a multivariate Gaussian
distribution can capture so far we've
been varying the covariance matrix Sigma
the other thing you can do is also vary
the mean parameter mu and so originally
we have medical 0 0 and so the
distribution was centered around X 1
equals 0 X 2 equals 0 so the peak of the
distribution is here whereas if we vary
the values of MU then that varies the
peak of the distribution so immunity
equals 0 0.5 the peak is at you know x1
equals 0 and x2 equals 0.5 and so the
peak or the center of this distribution
has shifted and if nu was you know 1.5
minus 0.5 then again similarly the peak
of the distribution has now shifted to a
different location corresponding to
where you know x1 is 1 point 5 and x2 is
minus 0.5 and so varying the new
parameter just shifts around the center
of this whole distribution so hopefully
looking at all these different pictures
gives you a sense of the sort of
probability distributions that the
multivariate Gaussian distribution
the capture and the key advantage of it
it allows you to capture when you expect
two different features to be positively
correlated or maybe negatively
correlated in the next video we'll take
this multivariate Gaussian distribution
and apply it to anomaly detection